doc/ref/basic_socket.adoc, before:

[[basic_socket]]
==== `basic_socket`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/socket.hpp>
----

This template can be used to easily define classes fulfilling the strict
<<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket` concept>> and specializing the
<<is_server_socket,`is_server_socket`>> trait. These classes exposes the
`HTTP/1.1` wire format (i.e. a builtin/standalone HTTP server) into an
easy-to-use API.

The underlying I/O object is expected to have the following properties:

* It is stream-oriented (i.e. no message boundaries; read or write operations
  may transfer fewer bytes than requested...).
* It fulfills the ASIO's `AsyncReadStream` requirement.
* It fulfills the ASIO's `AsyncWriteStream` requirement.
* It is backed by a reliable transport or session-layer “connection” with
  in-order delivery of octets (i.e. any 8-bit sequence of data).

[NOTE]
--
This class doesn't restrict the message, method, path and reason phrase types.
Therefore, the following members are *not* defined:

* `message_type`
* `request_server_type`
* `response_server_type`
--

WARNING: The API from this class is implemented in terms of composed
operations. As such, you MUST *NOT* initiate any async read operation while
there is another read operation in progress and you MUST *NOT* initiate any
async write operation while there is another write operation in progress. If you
cannot guarantee the ordering of the operations, you should use some queueing
socket (e.g.
http://sourceforge.net/p/axiomq/code/ci/master/tree/include/axiomq/basic_queue_socket.hpp[
AxioMQ's `basic_queue_socket`]).

TIP: You cannot detect the lack of network inactivity properly under this
layer. If you need to implement timeouts, you should do so under the lower
layer.

===== Template parameters

`Socket`::

  The underlying communication channel type. It MUST fulfill the requirements
  for ASIO's `AsyncReadStream` and ASIO's `AsyncWriteStream`.

===== Member types

`typedef Socket next_layer_type`::

  The type of the underlying communication channel.

===== Member functions

`basic_socket(boost::asio::io_service &io_service, boost::asio::mutable_buffer inbuffer)`::

  Constructor. _io_service_ is passed to the constructor from the underlying
  stream.
+
.Exceptions:
--
* `std::invalid_argument`: If buffer size is zero.
--

`template<class... Args> basic_socket(boost::asio::mutable_buffer inbuffer, Args&&... args)`::

  Constructor. _args_ are forwarded to the constructor from the underlying
  stream.
+
.Exceptions:
--
* `std::invalid_argument`: If buffer size is zero.
--

`next_layer_type &next_layer()`::

  Returns a reference to the underlying stream.

`const next_layer_type &next_layer() const`::

  Returns a reference to the underlying stream.

`void open()`::

  Change socket state to open.
+
NOTE: See `is_open()`
+
WARNING: You MUST cancel current ongoing operations and wait for their
completion handlers to be called before call this function. Otherwise, undefined
behaviour is invoked.

`boost::asio::const_buffer upgrade_head() const`::

  Return the buffer representing the first few bytes of the upgraded stream (may
  be empty).

`void lock_client_to_http10()`::

  Lock HTTP to `HTTP/1.0` version if socket is used as a client socket.

====== `Socket` concept

See the <<socket_concept,`Socket` concept>>.

* `asio::io_service& get_io_service()`
* `bool is_open() const`
* `read_state read_state() const`
* `write_state write_state() const`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_some(Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_trailers(Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write(const Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_trailers(const Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_end_of_message(CompletionToken &&token)`

====== `ServerSocket` concept

See the <<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket` concept>>.

* `bool write_response_native_stream() const`
* `template<class Request, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_request(Request &request, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Response, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response(const Response &response, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response_continue(CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Response, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response_metadata(const Response &response,
                                CompletionToken &&token)`

Commit message:

Refactor `basic_socket` to allow custom `reader` objects

doc/ref/basic_socket.adoc, after:

[[basic_socket]]
==== `basic_socket`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/socket.hpp>
----

This template can be used to easily define classes fulfilling the strict
<<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket` concept>> and specializing the
<<is_server_socket,`is_server_socket`>> trait. These classes exposes the
`HTTP/1.1` wire format (i.e. a builtin/standalone HTTP server) into an
easy-to-use API.

The underlying I/O object is expected to have the following properties:

* It is stream-oriented (i.e. no message boundaries; read or write operations
  may transfer fewer bytes than requested...).
* It fulfills the ASIO's `AsyncReadStream` requirement.
* It fulfills the ASIO's `AsyncWriteStream` requirement.
* It is backed by a reliable transport or session-layer “connection” with
  in-order delivery of octets (i.e. any 8-bit sequence of data).

[NOTE]
--
This class doesn't restrict the message, method, path and reason phrase types.
Therefore, the following members are *not* defined:

* `message_type`
* `request_server_type`
* `response_server_type`
--

WARNING: The API from this class is implemented in terms of composed
operations. As such, you MUST *NOT* initiate any async read operation while
there is another read operation in progress and you MUST *NOT* initiate any
async write operation while there is another write operation in progress. If you
cannot guarantee the ordering of the operations, you should use some queueing
socket (e.g.
http://sourceforge.net/p/axiomq/code/ci/master/tree/include/axiomq/basic_queue_socket.hpp[
AxioMQ's `basic_queue_socket`]).

TIP: You cannot detect the lack of network inactivity properly under this
layer. If you need to implement timeouts, you should do so under the lower
layer.

===== Template parameters

`Socket`::

  The underlying communication channel type. It MUST fulfill the requirements
  for ASIO's `AsyncReadStream` and ASIO's `AsyncWriteStream`.

`Settings`::

  Traits to define some settings. It defaults to _unspecified_.
+
As a reference, the default traits class has the following form:
+
[source,cpp]
----
struct
{
    typedef reader::request req_parser;
    typedef reader::response res_parser;
};
----

===== Member types

`typedef Socket next_layer_type`::

  The type of the underlying communication channel.

===== Member functions

`basic_socket(boost::asio::io_service &io_service, boost::asio::mutable_buffer inbuffer)`::

  Constructor. _io_service_ is passed to the constructor from the underlying
  stream.
+
.Exceptions:
--
* `std::invalid_argument`: If buffer size is zero.
--

`template<class... Args> basic_socket(boost::asio::mutable_buffer inbuffer, Args&&... args)`::

  Constructor. _args_ are forwarded to the constructor from the underlying
  stream.
+
.Exceptions:
--
* `std::invalid_argument`: If buffer size is zero.
--

`next_layer_type &next_layer()`::

  Returns a reference to the underlying stream.

`const next_layer_type &next_layer() const`::

  Returns a reference to the underlying stream.

`void open()`::

  Change socket state to open.
+
NOTE: See `is_open()`
+
WARNING: You MUST cancel current ongoing operations and wait for their
completion handlers to be called before call this function. Otherwise, undefined
behaviour is invoked.

`boost::asio::const_buffer upgrade_head() const`::

  Return the buffer representing the first few bytes of the upgraded stream (may
  be empty).

`void lock_client_to_http10()`::

  Lock HTTP to `HTTP/1.0` version if socket is used as a client socket.

====== `Socket` concept

See the <<socket_concept,`Socket` concept>>.

* `asio::io_service& get_io_service()`
* `bool is_open() const`
* `read_state read_state() const`
* `write_state write_state() const`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_some(Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_trailers(Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write(const Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Message, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_trailers(const Message &message, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_end_of_message(CompletionToken &&token)`

====== `ServerSocket` concept

See the <<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket` concept>>.

* `bool write_response_native_stream() const`
* `template<class Request, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_read_request(Request &request, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Response, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response(const Response &response, CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response_continue(CompletionToken &&token)`
* `template<class Response, class CompletionToken>
  typename boost::asio::async_result<
      typename boost::asio::handler_type<CompletionToken,
                                  void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
  async_write_response_metadata(const Response &response,
                                CompletionToken &&token)`
