doc/ref/client_socket_concept.adoc, before:

[[client_socket_concept]]
==== `ClientSocket`

Provides operations for HTTP clients.

===== Refinement of

* <<socket_concept,`Socket`>>

===== Definitions

Types fulfilling the `ClientSocket` concept and also possessing the _strict_ property::

  Instances from this type will *not* insert illegal characters
  footnote:[Defined in the <<message_concept,`Message` concept's “definitions”
  section>>.] in the HTTP fields.

===== Notation

`Request`::

  A type fulfilling the requirements for the <<request_concept,`Request`
  concept>>.

`Response`::

  A type fulfilling the requirements for the <<response_concept,`Response`
  concept>>.

`im`::

  Object of type `Response`.

`om`::

  Object of type `const Request`.

`CompletionToken`::

  A type fulfilling the concept of a completion token, as defined in
  https://isocpp.org/files/papers/n4045.pdf[N4045: Library Foundations for
  Asynchronous Operations, Revision 2].

`AsyncResultType`::

+
[source,cpp]
----
boost::asio::async_result<
     boost::asio::handler_type<
         CompletionToken, void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
----

`token`::

  An object of the type `CompletionToken`.

`X`::

  A type that is a model of `ClientSocket`.

`a`::

  Object of type `X`.

`ca`::

  Object of type `const X`.

===== Requirements

[options="header"]
|===
|Expression|Return type|Precondition|Semantics|Postcondition

|`std::is_base_of<std::true_type, http::is_client_socket<X>>`
|`std::true_type`| | |

|`X::request_type`|
|`ClientSocket` only supports operations involving a single type of request
 message.
|Must be a type fulfilling the requirements for the <<request_concept,`Request`
 concept>>.
|

|`X::response_type`|
|`ClientSocket` only supports operations involving a single type of response
 message.
|Must be a type fulfilling the requirements for the
 <<response_concept,`Response` concept>>.
|

|`a.async_write_request(om, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to write the request message (atomic
 message). Handler is called with an appropriate argument when the operation
 completes.

 `om` MUST *NOT* be modified while the operation is in progress.
|By the time the handler is called, the `om` message is considered delivered, if
 no error happened.

|`a.async_write_request(om, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() != write_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|`a .async_write_request_metadata(om, token)`
|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to write the request metadata (chunked
 message). Handler is called with an appropriate argument when the operation
 completes.

 `om` MUST *NOT* be modified while the operation is in progress.
a|

* `a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
* By the time the handler is called, the request metadata
  (i.e. `om.method()`, `om.target()` and `cm.headers()`) is considered
  delivered, if no error happened.

|`a .async_write_request_metadata(om, token)`
|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() != write_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|`a.async_read_response(im, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.read_state() == read_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to read enough of the message to fill the
 response metadata (i.e. status line plus the header section). Handler is
 called when the operation completes with an appropriate parameter.

 `im` is left in a unspecified state while the operation is in progress.
|By the time the handler is called, `im.status_code()` value represents the read
 status code, `im.reason_phrase()` represents the read reason phrase and all
 headers for the current response are inserted into `im.headers()`, if no error
 happened.

|`a.async_read_response(im, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.read_state() != read_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|===

The following `Socket` operations are refined with extra
semantics/postconditions:

[options="header"]
|===
|Expression|Precondition|Extra semantics|Extra postcondition

|`a.async_read_trailers(m, token)`
|`a.read_state() == read_state::body_ready`
|
|By the time the handler is called, if no error happened, `a.read_state() ==
 http::read_state::empty`.

|`a.async_write_trailers(cm, token)`
|`a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
|
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`

|`a.async_write_end_of_message (token)`
|`a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
|
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`

|===

. Failing to comply with the “MUST” and “MUST *NOT*” conditions described
  previously invokes undefined behaviour.
. Any HTTP field name received through the wire is normalized (i.e. uppercase
  characters are converted to lowercase) before they're inserted into objects of
  type `Response::headers_type`.
. Upon receiving a message (i.e. `async_read_response`, `async_read_some` or
  `async_read_trailers`), if message receipt was successful, but connection is
  gracefully closed in the HTTP-equivalent layer (e.g. `"connection: close"`
  header) and no longer usable, the handler MUST be called with <<http_errc,
  `http_errc::stream_finished`>>.
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel.
. The user communicates the intent to wait for a “100 (Continue) response” by
  inserting the `"expect: 100-continue"` header (and more than one element with
  the HTTP field name `"expect"` MUST NOT be present in the sent request
  metadata).
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel. For instance, if the `ClientSocket`
doesn't intend to implement such semantics, it can omit this header from the
message sent to the underlying channel and fill a “100 (Continue) response” in
the next call the user does to `read_response` whether this response was
received from the underlying channel or not (i.e. fill a virtual response).
. Two consecutive “100 (Continue) response” MUST NOT be delivered (API-wise
  domain) to the user.
. If the `ClientSocket` isn't willing to provide support for protocol upgrade,
  then no `"upgrade"` headers should be sent (in other words, all `"upgrade"`
  headers MUST be skipped before delivering the message from the user of this
  library — or a behaviour that is equivalent in the underlying channel).
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel.
. The `ClientSocket` object MUST *NOT* insert HTTP headers with empty keys
  (i.e. `""`) in message, request or response objects provided by the user.

===== Models

* <<basic_socket,`basic_socket`>>
* <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>

Commit message:

{Client,Server}Socket concepts updated

doc/ref/client_socket_concept.adoc, after:

[[client_socket_concept]]
==== `ClientSocket`

Provides operations for HTTP clients.

===== Refinement of

* <<socket_concept,`Socket`>>

===== Definitions

Types fulfilling the `ClientSocket` concept and also possessing the _strict_ property::

  Instances from this type will *not* insert illegal characters
  footnote:[Defined in the <<message_concept,`Message` concept's “definitions”
  section>>.] in the HTTP fields.

===== Notation

`Request`::

  A type fulfilling the requirements for the <<request_concept,`Request`
  concept>>.

`Response`::

  A type fulfilling the requirements for the <<response_concept,`Response`
  concept>>.

`im`::

  Object of type `Response`.

`om`::

  Object of type `const Request`.

`CompletionToken`::

  A type fulfilling the concept of a completion token, as defined in
  https://isocpp.org/files/papers/n4045.pdf[N4045: Library Foundations for
  Asynchronous Operations, Revision 2].

`AsyncResultType`::

+
[source,cpp]
----
boost::asio::async_result<
     boost::asio::handler_type<
         CompletionToken, void(boost::system::error_code)>::type>::type
----

`token`::

  An object of the type `CompletionToken`.

`X`::

  A type that is a model of `ClientSocket`.

`a`::

  Object of type `X`.

`ca`::

  Object of type `const X`.

===== Requirements

[options="header"]
|===
|Expression|Return type|Precondition|Semantics|Postcondition

|`std::is_base_of<std::true_type, http::is_client_socket<X>>`
|`std::true_type`| | |

|`X::request_type`|
|`ClientSocket` only supports operations involving a single type of request
 message.
|Must be a type fulfilling the requirements for the <<request_concept,`Request`
 concept>>.
|

|`X::response_type`|
|`ClientSocket` only supports operations involving a single type of response
 message.
|Must be a type fulfilling the requirements for the
 <<response_concept,`Response` concept>>.
|

|`a.async_write_request(om, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to write the request message (atomic
 message). Handler is called with an appropriate argument when the operation
 completes.

 `om` MUST *NOT* be modified while the operation is in progress.
|By the time the handler is called, the `om` message is considered delivered, if
 no error happened.

|`a.async_write_request(om, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() != write_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|`a .async_write_request_metadata(om, token)`
|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to write the request metadata (chunked
 message). Handler is called with an appropriate argument when the operation
 completes.

 `om` MUST *NOT* be modified while the operation is in progress.
a|

* `a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
* By the time the handler is called, the request metadata
  (i.e. `om.method()`, `om.target()` and `cm.headers()`) is considered
  delivered, if no error happened.

|`a .async_write_request_metadata(om, token)`
|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.write_state() != write_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|`a.async_read_response(im, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.read_state() == read_state::empty`
|Initiate an asynchronous operation to read enough of the message to fill the
 response metadata (i.e. status line plus the header section). Handler is
 called when the operation completes with an appropriate parameter.

 `im` is left in a unspecified state while the operation is in progress.
|By the time the handler is called, `im.status_code()` value represents the read
 status code, `im.reason_phrase()` represents the read reason phrase and all
 headers for the current response are inserted into `im.headers()`, if no error
 happened.

|`a.async_read_response(im, token)`|`AsyncResultType`
|`a.read_state() != read_state::empty`
|No actions are done and the handler from the completion token is called with
 `boost::system::error_code {http_errc::out_of_order}`.
|

|===

The following `Socket` operations are refined with extra
semantics/postconditions:

[options="header"]
|===
|Expression|Precondition|Extra semantics|Extra postcondition

|`a.async_read_trailers(m, token)`
|`a.read_state() == read_state::body_ready`
|
|By the time the handler is called, if no error happened, `a.read_state() ==
 http::read_state::empty`.

|`a.async_write_trailers(cm, token)`
|`a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
|
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`

|`a.async_write_end_of_message (token)`
|`a.write_state() == write_state ::metadata_issued`
|
|`a.write_state() == write_state::empty`

|===

. Failing to comply with the “MUST” and “MUST *NOT*” conditions described
  previously invokes undefined behaviour.
. Any HTTP field name received through the wire is normalized (i.e. uppercase
  characters are converted to lowercase) before they're inserted into objects of
  type `Response::headers_type`.
. Upon receiving a message (i.e. `async_read_response`, `async_read_some` or
  `async_read_trailers`), if connection is gracefully closed in the
  HTTP-equivalent layer (e.g. `"connection: close"` header), `ClientSocket` MUST
  change the state to closed (i.e. `is_open()` will return `false`).
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel.
. The user communicates the intent to wait for a “100 (Continue) response” by
  inserting the `"expect: 100-continue"` header (and more than one element with
  the HTTP field name `"expect"` MUST NOT be present in the sent request
  metadata).
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel. For instance, if the `ClientSocket`
doesn't intend to implement such semantics, it can omit this header from the
message sent to the underlying channel and fill a “100 (Continue) response” in
the next call the user does to `read_response` whether this response was
received from the underlying channel or not (i.e. fill a virtual response).
. If the `ClientSocket` isn't willing to provide support for protocol upgrade,
  then no `"upgrade"` headers should be sent (in other words, all `"upgrade"`
  headers MUST be skipped before delivering the message from the user of this
  library — or a behaviour that is equivalent in the underlying channel).
+
This behaviour is intended for the communication between the user of this
library and the `ClientSocket` and can differ from the communication between the
`ClientSocket` and the underlying channel.
. The `ClientSocket` object MUST *NOT* insert HTTP headers with empty keys
  (i.e. `""`) in message, request or response objects provided by the user.
. The user of this library MUST *NOT* insert `"content-length"` or
  `"transfer-encoding"` headers in `om`.

===== Models

* <<basic_socket,`basic_socket`>>
* <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>
