doc/ref/reader_request.adoc, before:

[[reader_request]]
==== `reader::request`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/reader/request.hpp>
----

This class represents an `HTTP/1.1` (and `HTTP/1.0`) incremental parser. It'll
use the token definitions found in <<token_code_value,`token::code::value`>>.
You may want to check the <<parsing_tutorial1,basic parsing tutorial>> to learn
the basics.

[IMPORTANT]
--
Once the parser enters in an error state (*and* the error is different than
`token::code::error_insufficient_data`), the internal buffer is said to be in an
invalidated state. Therefore, the parser won't access the data anymore and the
user is free to invalidate the data (e.g. resize/free it) without calling
`set_buffer()` or `reset()` first.

If you want to reuse the same reader object to parse another stream, just call
`reset()`.
--

===== Member types

`typedef std::size_t size_type`::

  Type used to represent sizes.

`typedef const char value_type`::

  Type used to represent the value of a single element in the buffer.

`typedef value_type *pointer`::

  Pointer-to-value type.

`typedef boost::string_ref view_type`::

  Type used to refer to non-owning string slices.

===== Member functions

`request()`::

  Constructor.

`void reset()`::

  After a call to this function, the object has the same internal state as an
  object that was just constructed.

`token::code::value code() const`::

  Use it to inspect current token. Returns code.
+
[NOTE]
--
The following values are *never* returned:

* `token::code::error_set_method`.
* `token::code::error_use_another_connection`.
* `token::code::status_code`.
* `token::code::reason_phrase`.
--

`size_type token_size() const`::

  Returns the size of current token.
+
[NOTE]
--
After you call `next()`, you're free to remove, from the buffer, the amount of
bytes equals to the value returned here.

If you do remove the parsed data from the buffer, the address of the data
shouldn't change (i.e. you must not invalidate the pointers/iterators to old
unparsed data). If you do change the address of old unparsed data, call
`set_buffer` before using this object again.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::size_t nparsed = reader.token_size();
reader.next();
buffer.erase(0, nparsed);
reader.set_buffer(buffer);
----
--
+
WARNING: Do *not* use `string_length(reader.value<T>())` to compute the token
size. `string_length(reader.value<T>())` and `reader.token_size()` may
differ. <<parsing_tutorial2,Check the advanced parsing tutorial for more
details>>.

`template<class T> typename T::type value() const`::

  Extracts the value of current token and returns it.
+
`T` must be one of:
+
* `token::method`.
* `token::request_target`.
* `token::version`.
* `token::field_name`.
* `token::field_value`.
* `token::body_chunk`.
+
WARNING: The `assert(code() == T::code)` precondition is assumed.
+
NOTE: This parser doesn't buffer data. The value is extracted directly from
buffer.

`token::code::value expected_token() const`::

  Returns the expected token code.
+
Useful when the buffer has been exhausted and `code() ==
token::code::error_insufficient_data`. Use it to respond with
“URL/HTTP-header/... too long” or another error-handling strategy.
+
[WARNING]
--
The returned value is a *heuristic*, not a _truth_. If your buffer is too small,
the buffer will be exhausted with too little info to know which element is
expected for sure.

For instance, `expected_token()` might return `token::code::field_name`, but
when you have enough info in the buffer, the actual token happens to be
`token::code::end_of_headers`.
--

`void next()`::

  Consumes the current token and advances in the buffer.
+
NOTE: Given the current token is complete (i.e. `code() !=
token::code::error_insufficient_data`), a call to this function *always*
consumes the current token.

`void set_buffer(asio::const_buffer inbuffer)`::

  Sets buffer to _inbuffer_.
+
[NOTE]
--
_inbuffer_ should hold the data at the same point of unparsed data from the
internal buffer from before this call.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::size_t nparsed = reader.token_size();

// now unparsed data becomes ahead
// of `buffer.begin()`
reader.next();

reader.set_buffer(buffer + nparsed);
----
--
+
WARNING: The reader object follows the HTTP stream orchestrated by the
continuous flow of `set_buffer()` and `next()`. You should treat this region as
read-only. For instance, if I pass `"header-a: something"` to the reader and
then change the contents to `"header-a: another thing"`, there are no guarantees
about the reader object behaviour. You can safely change only the contents of
the buffer region not yet exposed to `reader` through
`reader.set_buffer(some_buffer)` (i.e. the region outside of `some_buffer` never
seen by `reader`).
+
[NOTE]
--
You're free to pass larger buffers at will.

You're also free to pass a buffer just as big as current token
(i.e. `token_size()`). In other words, you're free to shrink the buffer *if* the
new buffer is at least as big as current token.
--
+
[TIP]
--
If you want to free the buffer while maintaining the reader object valid, just
set the buffer to current token size, call `next()` and then set buffer to an
empty buffer.

Do notice that this will consume current token as well. And as values are
decoded directly from the buffer, this strategy is the only choice.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
reader.set_buffer(boost::asio::buffer(buffer, reader.token_size()));
reader.next();
reader.set_buffer(boost::asio::const_buffer());
buffer.clear();
----
--

===== See also

* <<request_response_diff,What are the differences between `reader::request` and
    `reader::response`?>>

Commit message:

Add reader::{request,response}::parsed_count functions
It is useful to simplify projects that use this library.

doc/ref/reader_request.adoc, after:

[[reader_request]]
==== `reader::request`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/reader/request.hpp>
----

This class represents an `HTTP/1.1` (and `HTTP/1.0`) incremental parser. It'll
use the token definitions found in <<token_code_value,`token::code::value`>>.
You may want to check the <<parsing_tutorial1,basic parsing tutorial>> to learn
the basics.

[IMPORTANT]
--
Once the parser enters in an error state (*and* the error is different than
`token::code::error_insufficient_data`), the internal buffer is said to be in an
invalidated state. Therefore, the parser won't access the data anymore and the
user is free to invalidate the data (e.g. resize/free it) without calling
`set_buffer()` or `reset()` first.

If you want to reuse the same reader object to parse another stream, just call
`reset()`.
--

===== Member types

`typedef std::size_t size_type`::

  Type used to represent sizes.

`typedef const char value_type`::

  Type used to represent the value of a single element in the buffer.

`typedef value_type *pointer`::

  Pointer-to-value type.

`typedef boost::string_ref view_type`::

  Type used to refer to non-owning string slices.

===== Member functions

`request()`::

  Constructor.

`void reset()`::

  After a call to this function, the object has the same internal state as an
  object that was just constructed.

`token::code::value code() const`::

  Use it to inspect current token. Returns code.
+
[NOTE]
--
The following values are *never* returned:

* `token::code::error_set_method`.
* `token::code::error_use_another_connection`.
* `token::code::status_code`.
* `token::code::reason_phrase`.
--

`size_type token_size() const`::

  Returns the size of current token.
+
[NOTE]
--
After you call `next()`, you're free to remove, from the buffer, the amount of
bytes equals to the value returned here.

If you do remove the parsed data from the buffer, the address of the data
shouldn't change (i.e. you must not invalidate the pointers/iterators to old
unparsed data). If you do change the address of old unparsed data, call
`set_buffer` before using this object again.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::size_t nparsed = reader.token_size();
reader.next();
buffer.erase(0, nparsed);
reader.set_buffer(buffer);
----
--
+
WARNING: Do *not* use `string_length(reader.value<T>())` to compute the token
size. `string_length(reader.value<T>())` and `reader.token_size()` may
differ. <<parsing_tutorial2,Check the advanced parsing tutorial for more
details>>.

`template<class T> typename T::type value() const`::

  Extracts the value of current token and returns it.
+
`T` must be one of:
+
* `token::method`.
* `token::request_target`.
* `token::version`.
* `token::field_name`.
* `token::field_value`.
* `token::body_chunk`.
+
WARNING: The `assert(code() == T::code)` precondition is assumed.
+
NOTE: This parser doesn't buffer data. The value is extracted directly from
buffer.

`token::code::value expected_token() const`::

  Returns the expected token code.
+
Useful when the buffer has been exhausted and `code() ==
token::code::error_insufficient_data`. Use it to respond with
“URL/HTTP-header/... too long” or another error-handling strategy.
+
[WARNING]
--
The returned value is a *heuristic*, not a _truth_. If your buffer is too small,
the buffer will be exhausted with too little info to know which element is
expected for sure.

For instance, `expected_token()` might return `token::code::field_name`, but
when you have enough info in the buffer, the actual token happens to be
`token::code::end_of_headers`.
--

`void next()`::

  Consumes the current token and advances in the buffer.
+
NOTE: Given the current token is complete (i.e. `code() !=
token::code::error_insufficient_data`), a call to this function *always*
consumes the current token.

`void set_buffer(asio::const_buffer inbuffer)`::

  Sets buffer to _inbuffer_.
+
[NOTE]
--
_inbuffer_ should hold the data at the same point of unparsed data from the
internal buffer from before this call.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
std::size_t nparsed = reader.token_size();

// now unparsed data becomes ahead
// of `buffer.begin()`
reader.next();

reader.set_buffer(buffer + nparsed);
----
--
+
WARNING: The reader object follows the HTTP stream orchestrated by the
continuous flow of `set_buffer()` and `next()`. You should treat this region as
read-only. For instance, if I pass `"header-a: something"` to the reader and
then change the contents to `"header-a: another thing"`, there are no guarantees
about the reader object behaviour. You can safely change only the contents of
the buffer region not yet exposed to `reader` through
`reader.set_buffer(some_buffer)` (i.e. the region outside of `some_buffer` never
seen by `reader`).
+
[NOTE]
--
You're free to pass larger buffers at will.

You're also free to pass a buffer just as big as current token
(i.e. `token_size()`). In other words, you're free to shrink the buffer *if* the
new buffer is at least as big as current token.
--
+
[TIP]
--
If you want to free the buffer while maintaining the reader object valid, just
set the buffer to current token size, call `next()` and then set buffer to an
empty buffer.

Do notice that this will consume current token as well. And as values are
decoded directly from the buffer, this strategy is the only choice.

.Example

[source,cpp]
----
reader.set_buffer(boost::asio::buffer(buffer, reader.token_size()));
reader.next();
reader.set_buffer(boost::asio::const_buffer());
buffer.clear();
----
--

`size_type parsed_count() const`::

  Returns the number of bytes parsed *since `set_buffer` was last called*.
+
[TIP]
--
You can use it to go away with the `nparsed` variable shown in the
<<parsing_tutorial1,principles on parsing tutorial>>. I'm sorry about the “_you
must keep track of the number of discarded bytes_” lie I told you before, but as
https://channel9.msdn.com/Shows/Going+Deep/Cpp-and-Beyond-2012-Scott-Meyers-Universal-References-in-Cpp11[one
great explainer once told]:

[quote, Scott Meyers, C++ and Beyond 2012: Universal References in C++11]
____
As I look upon you... it occurs to me that you may not have the necessary level
of maturity to handle the truth.
____

That lie was useful to explain some core concepts behind this library.
--

===== See also

* <<request_response_diff,What are the differences between `reader::request` and
    `reader::response`?>>
