doc/ref/server_socket_adaptor.adoc, before:

[[server_socket_adaptor]]
==== `server_socket_adaptor`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/server_socket_adaptor.hpp>
----

This class adapts a class fulfilling the <<server_socket_concept, `ServerSocket`
concept>> to implement the <<basic_polymorphic_server_socket,
`basic_polymorphic_server_socket<Message>`>> interface.

This design was chosen taking a number of shortcomings in consideration.

If the user can control object construction, he might benefit by less levels of
indirection by constructing both (the HTTP socket and its runtime-based
polymorphic adaptor) at once and at a single memory space.

The scenario where the user don't control the object construction was also taken
in consideration. In these cases, it's possible to use the
`std::reference_wrapper` type found in the `<functional>` header. There is a
`server_socket_adaptor` specialization that will do the job for
`std::reference_wrapper`.

Also, if the user needs to query for the specific type at runtime, the user can
do so with a single call to `dynamic_cast` to the specific polymorphic wrapper
(rather than calling a second function to query for the wrapped object).

The design is simple to use, to learn and to read. These values were chasen to
avoid misuse by the user's part.

Although very different, the name and inspiration were borrowed from
http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2013/n3525.pdf[N3525:
Polymorphic Allocators].

===== Template parameters

`Socket`::

  The type to be wrapped.

`Message = message`::

  The message type. Default argument is <<message,`message`>>.

===== Specializations

* `server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>`

===== Member types

`typedef Socket next_layer_type`::

  The type of the wrapped socket.

===== Member functions

`template<class... Args> server_socket_adaptor(Args&&... args)`::

  Constructor. `args` are forwarded to the underlying socket constructor.
+
NOTE: Not available under the
`server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>` specialization.

`server_socket_adaptor(Socket &socket)`::

  Constructor. `socket` is passed to the `std::reference_wrapper`
  constructor.
+
NOTE: Only available under the
`server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>` specialization.

`next_layer_type &next_layer()`::

  Socket isn't exposed directly to avoid confusion over the duplication of
  interfaces.
+
The name socket is not used because both (the wrapped object and this object
itself) are sockets and it would be confusing.

`const next_layer_type &next_layer() const`::

  Socket isn't exposed directly to avoid confusion over the duplication of
  interfaces.
+
The name socket is not used because both (the wrapped object and this object
itself) are sockets and it would be confusing.

Commit message:

Refactor lib to split Message into Request and Response
It'll make use more convenient, but I need to add more helper functions
later.

doc/ref/server_socket_adaptor.adoc, after:

[[server_socket_adaptor]]
==== `server_socket_adaptor`

[source,cpp]
----
#include <boost/http/server_socket_adaptor.hpp>
----

This class adapts a class fulfilling the <<server_socket_concept, `ServerSocket`
concept>> to implement the <<basic_polymorphic_server_socket,
`basic_polymorphic_server_socket<Request, Response, Message>`>> interface.

This design was chosen taking a number of shortcomings in consideration.

If the user can control object construction, he might benefit by less levels of
indirection by constructing both (the HTTP socket and its runtime-based
polymorphic adaptor) at once and at a single memory space.

The scenario where the user don't control the object construction was also taken
in consideration. In these cases, it's possible to use the
`std::reference_wrapper` type found in the `<functional>` header. There is a
`server_socket_adaptor` specialization that will do the job for
`std::reference_wrapper`.

Also, if the user needs to query for the specific type at runtime, the user can
do so with a single call to `dynamic_cast` to the specific polymorphic wrapper
(rather than calling a second function to query for the wrapped object).

The design is simple to use, to learn and to read. These values were chasen to
avoid misuse by the user's part.

Although very different, the name and inspiration were borrowed from
http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2013/n3525.pdf[N3525:
Polymorphic Allocators].

===== Template parameters

`Socket`::

  The type to be wrapped.

`Request = request`::

  The request message type. Default argument is <<request,`request`>>.

`Response = response`::

  The response message type. Default argument is <<response,`response`>>.

`Message = request_response_wrapper<Request, Response>`::

  The message type. Default argument is <<request_response_wrapper,
  `request_response_wrapper<Request, Response>`>>.

===== Specializations

* `server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>`

===== Member types

`typedef Socket next_layer_type`::

  The type of the wrapped socket.

===== Member functions

`template<class... Args> server_socket_adaptor(Args&&... args)`::

  Constructor. `args` are forwarded to the underlying socket constructor.
+
NOTE: Not available under the
`server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>` specialization.

`server_socket_adaptor(Socket &socket)`::

  Constructor. `socket` is passed to the `std::reference_wrapper`
  constructor.
+
NOTE: Only available under the
`server_socket_adaptor<std::reference_wrapper<Socket>>` specialization.

`next_layer_type &next_layer()`::

  Socket isn't exposed directly to avoid confusion over the duplication of
  interfaces.
+
The name socket is not used because both (the wrapped object and this object
itself) are sockets and it would be confusing.

`const next_layer_type &next_layer() const`::

  Socket isn't exposed directly to avoid confusion over the duplication of
  interfaces.
+
The name socket is not used because both (the wrapped object and this object
itself) are sockets and it would be confusing.
