doc/design.adoc, before:

[[design_choices]]
== Design choices

=== FAQ

[qanda]
How robust is this parser?::

  It doesn't try to parse URLs at all. It'll ensure that only valid characters
  (according to HTTP request target BNF rule) are present, but invalid sequences
  are accepted.
+
This parser is a little (but not too much) more liberal in what accepts and
it'll accept invalid sequences for rarely used elements that don't impact upper
layers of the application. The reason to accept such non-conformant sequences is
a simpler algorithm that can be more performant (e.g. we only check for invalid
chars, but not invalid sequences). Therefore, it's advised to reframe the
message if you intend to forward it to some other participant. Not doing so,
might be a security issue if the participant you are forwarding your message to
is know to show improper behaviour when parsing invalid streams. There are
several references within the RFC7230 where similar decisions are suggested
(e.g. if you receive redundant Content-Length header field, you must merge it
into one before forwarding or reject the message as a whole).

Why not make a parser using Boost.Spirit?::

  TODO.

What is the recommended buffer size?::

  A buffer of size 7990 is recommended (suggested request line of 8000 by
  section 3.1.1 of RFC7230 minus spaces, minus http version information minus
  the minimum size of the other token in the request line). However, the real
  suggested buffer size should be how long names you expect to have on your own
  servers.

=== Roadmap

* Parsers combinators.
* Incremental message generator.
* Iterator adaptors.

Commit message:

Add new FAQ entry, reader::{request,response} difference
Requested by Marcelo Zimbres

doc/design.adoc, after:

[[design_choices]]
== Design choices

=== FAQ

[qanda]
How robust is this parser?::

  It doesn't try to parse URLs at all. It'll ensure that only valid characters
  (according to HTTP request target BNF rule) are present, but invalid sequences
  are accepted.
+
This parser is a little (but not too much) more liberal in what accepts and
it'll accept invalid sequences for rarely used elements that don't impact upper
layers of the application. The reason to accept such non-conformant sequences is
a simpler algorithm that can be more performant (e.g. we only check for invalid
chars, but not invalid sequences). Therefore, it's advised to reframe the
message if you intend to forward it to some other participant. Not doing so,
might be a security issue if the participant you are forwarding your message to
is know to show improper behaviour when parsing invalid streams. There are
several references within the RFC7230 where similar decisions are suggested
(e.g. if you receive redundant Content-Length header field, you must merge it
into one before forwarding or reject the message as a whole).

Why not make a parser using Boost.Spirit?::

  TODO.

What is the recommended buffer size?::

  A buffer of size 7990 is recommended (suggested request line of 8000 by
  section 3.1.1 of RFC7230 minus spaces, minus http version information minus
  the minimum size of the other token in the request line). However, the real
  suggested buffer size should be how long names you expect to have on your own
  servers.

What are the differences between `reader::request` and `reader::response`?::

+
[[request_response_diff]]
--
* `response` has the `void set_method(view_type method)` member-function.
+
WARNING: This member-function *MUST* be called for each HTTP response message
being parsed in the stream.
* `response` has the `void puteof()` member-function.
* `code()` member function return value has different guarantees in each class.
* `template<class T> typename T::type value() const` member function accepts
  different input template arguments in each class.
--

=== Roadmap

* Parsers combinators.
* Incremental message generator.
* Iterator adaptors.
