doc/http.adoc, before:

= Boost.Http
:author: Vinícius dos Santos Oliveira
:email: vini.ipsmaker@gmail.com
:doctype: book

:source-highlighter: pygments

:toclevels: 3
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4

:cpp: C++
:cpp98: C++98
:cpp11: C++11
:rfc7230: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-3.2.2[RFC 7230]

Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0. (See accompanying
file LICENSE_1_0.txt or copy at http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt)

This library can be used to create applications that need to expose services
through HTTP (e.g. embeddable ReST services).

WARNING: This is not an official Boost C++ library. It wasn't reviewed and can't
be downloaded from
www.boost.org. http://www.boost.org/community/review_schedule.html[This library
will be reviewed eventually].

''''

Conceptually Boost.Http is a Boost.Asio socket for HTTP, which means can
leverage Boost.Asio features such as SSL and coroutines, and it integrates
seemlessly with other Boost.Asio sockets.

Among its features:

* Support for modern HTTP features.
** Pipelining and persistent connection, where the same connection can be used
   to serve HTTP multiple requests.
** Chunking, where the HTTP body can be split into smaller pieces that are sent
   one by one. This is useful for building event listeners.
** Upgrading, where the HTTP protocol can be changed into another protocol such
   as WebSockets.
** Security, where SSL is used to encrypt the traffic.
** `100-continue` status.
* Lean API that unifies HTTP messages and HTTP chunking.
** You can handle the request as soon as the metadata is available (request line
   plus header section).
** There is only one API to acquire the request body. This API allows
   progressive downloading.
** The response body can be be generated wholesale for normal HTTP responses, or
   be split into smaller pieces using HTTP chunking.
* Extensible asynchronous design inherited from ASIO.
** Interaction via futures, coroutines, or callbacks.
** Various HTTP server architectures are possible, whether multi-threaded
   servers (one thread per request, either with or without a thread-pool), one
   coroutine per request, or completely single-threaded.
** Seamless integration with other non-HTTP ASIO services.

Boost.Http also provides the best HTTP parsing abstractions:

* Simple.
* Portable (C++03 and very few other dependencies).
* Just like Ryan Dahl's HTTP parser, this parser does not make any syscalls or
  allocations. It also does not buffer data.
* You can mutate the passed buffer footnote:[The larger explanation being:
  incomplete tokens are kept in buffer, so you are not required to allocate them
  on a secondary buffer, but you're still allowed to mutate/move/grow the buffer
  (as opposed to... say... some C++ iterators that would get invalidated once
  the container changes).].
* It doesn't steal control flow from your application footnote:[parsing is done
  one token at a time no matter how much data is buffered]. Great for HTTP
  pipelining.
* Matching and decoding tokens as separate steps footnote:[Proper extraction of
  header fields (some popular parsers like NodeJS's will force you to know
  protocol details and parser internals to manually remove leading and trailing
  whitespace from field values). This point is not only about header field
  extraction, but really about a parser that indeed abstract and understand the
  protocol and that is easy to use right by people that don't know HTTP.].

Boost.Http also provides a couple of special-purpose server classes:

* Lightweight standalone server.
** The underlying socket type is customizable, so you can also use a
   `queue_socket` footnote:[Useful to avoid the gotchas of ASIO composed
   operations. See http://sourceforge.net/p/asio/mailman/message/32259256/ for
   more information.]footnote:[See an example at
   <http://sourceforge.net/p/axiomq/code/ci/master/tree/include/axiomq/basic_queue_socket.hpp>.].
* Flexible static file server with support for conditional requests, partial
  download and ETag recognition.
** You can use the default file resolver or provide one yourself.
** You can adapt the default resolver.
** You can add a last hook to customize the response message before the file is
   served.
** Stateless abstractions, relying on OS capabilities to provide cache.

Boost.Http has been designed for multiple backends, such HTTP/2, and FastGCI,
which can be added in the future.

include::using.adoc[]

include::tutorial.adoc[]

include::design.adoc[]

////
== Examples

include::examples.adoc[]
////

include::reference.adoc[]

Commit message:

Re-add runtime-based polymorphic helpers
They were removed in commit eebc61986526f996ee89ee3906d783b347aa33b7
before the upgrade to Boost.Asio 1.66. At that time, implementation was
wrong because it wasn't preserving associated allocators and associated
executors as noted by Vinnie Falco in
<https://github.com/BoostGSoC14/boost.http/commit/0eadedb211b2bc61dcce72e647548373bd798c43#r24210637>.

Polymorphic helpers now have the prefix `poly_*` instead
`polymorphic_*`. The previous prefix was inspired by C++ polymorphic
handlers, but these long names are really inconvenient and now I'm
ignoring STL “convention”.

doc/http.adoc, after:

= Boost.Http
:author: Vinícius dos Santos Oliveira
:email: vini.ipsmaker@gmail.com
:doctype: book

:source-highlighter: pygments

:toclevels: 3
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4

:cpp: C++
:cpp98: C++98
:cpp11: C++11
:rfc7230: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-3.2.2[RFC 7230]

Distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0. (See accompanying
file LICENSE_1_0.txt or copy at http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt)

This library can be used to create applications that need to expose services
through HTTP (e.g. embeddable ReST services).

WARNING: This is not an official Boost C++ library. It wasn't reviewed and can't
be downloaded from
www.boost.org. http://www.boost.org/community/review_schedule.html[This library
will be reviewed eventually].

''''

Conceptually Boost.Http is a Boost.Asio socket for HTTP, which means can
leverage Boost.Asio features such as SSL and coroutines, and it integrates
seemlessly with other Boost.Asio sockets.

Among its features:

* Support for modern HTTP features.
** Pipelining and persistent connection, where the same connection can be used
   to serve HTTP multiple requests.
** Chunking, where the HTTP body can be split into smaller pieces that are sent
   one by one. This is useful for building event listeners.
** Upgrading, where the HTTP protocol can be changed into another protocol such
   as WebSockets.
** Security, where SSL is used to encrypt the traffic.
** `100-continue` status.
* Lean API that unifies HTTP messages and HTTP chunking.
** You can handle the request as soon as the metadata is available (request line
   plus header section).
** There is only one API to acquire the request body. This API allows
   progressive downloading.
** The response body can be be generated wholesale for normal HTTP responses, or
   be split into smaller pieces using HTTP chunking.
* Extensible asynchronous design inherited from ASIO.
** Interaction via futures, coroutines, or callbacks.
** Various HTTP server architectures are possible, whether multi-threaded
   servers (one thread per request, either with or without a thread-pool), one
   coroutine per request, or completely single-threaded.
** Seamless integration with other non-HTTP ASIO services.

Boost.Http also provides the best HTTP parsing abstractions:

* Simple.
* Portable (C++03 and very few other dependencies).
* Just like Ryan Dahl's HTTP parser, this parser does not make any syscalls or
  allocations. It also does not buffer data.
* You can mutate the passed buffer footnote:[The larger explanation being:
  incomplete tokens are kept in buffer, so you are not required to allocate them
  on a secondary buffer, but you're still allowed to mutate/move/grow the buffer
  (as opposed to... say... some C++ iterators that would get invalidated once
  the container changes).].
* It doesn't steal control flow from your application footnote:[parsing is done
  one token at a time no matter how much data is buffered]. Great for HTTP
  pipelining.
* Matching and decoding tokens as separate steps footnote:[Proper extraction of
  header fields (some popular parsers like NodeJS's will force you to know
  protocol details and parser internals to manually remove leading and trailing
  whitespace from field values). This point is not only about header field
  extraction, but really about a parser that indeed abstract and understand the
  protocol and that is easy to use right by people that don't know HTTP.].

Boost.Http also provides a couple of special-purpose server classes:

* Lightweight standalone server.
** The underlying socket type is customizable, so you can also use a
   `queue_socket` footnote:[Useful to avoid the gotchas of ASIO composed
   operations. See http://sourceforge.net/p/asio/mailman/message/32259256/ for
   more information.]footnote:[See an example at
   <http://sourceforge.net/p/axiomq/code/ci/master/tree/include/axiomq/basic_queue_socket.hpp>.].
* Flexible static file server with support for conditional requests, partial
  download and ETag recognition.
** You can use the default file resolver or provide one yourself.
** You can adapt the default resolver.
** You can add a last hook to customize the response message before the file is
   served.
** Stateless abstractions, relying on OS capabilities to provide cache.

Boost.Http has been designed for multiple backends, such HTTP/2, and FastGCI,
which can be added in the future. You can choose between compile-time and
runtime polymorphism. Adapters are provided.

include::using.adoc[]

include::tutorial.adoc[]

include::design.adoc[]

////
== Examples

include::examples.adoc[]
////

include::reference.adoc[]
