doc/parsing_tutorial1.adoc, before:

[[parsing_tutorial1]]
=== Parsing (beginner)

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to use this library to parse HTTP streams
easily.

NOTE: We assume the reader has basic understanding of C++ and Boost.Asio.

We start with the code that should resemble the structure of the program you're
about to code. And this structure is as follows:

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1.cpp[]
----

You're building a piece of code that consumes HTTP from somewhere — the in — and
spits it out in the form of C++ structured data to somewhere else — the out.

The _in_ of your program is connected to the above piece of code through the
`on_socket_callback` member function. The _out_ of your program is connected to
the previous piece of code through the `ready` overrideable member-function.

By now I shouldn't be worried about your understanding of how you'll connect the
network I/O with the _in_ of the program. The connection point is obvious
by now. However, I'll briefly explain the _out_ connection point and then we can
proceed to delve into the _inout_-inbetween (Danas) part of the program.

Once the `ready` member function is called, the data for your request will be
available in the `method`, `request_target` and the other _public_
variables. From now on, I'll focus my attention to the sole implementation of
`my_socket_consumer::on_socket_callback`.

.The awaited prize

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1b.cpp[]
----

Try to keep in mind the three variables that will really orchestrate the flow:
`request_reader`, `buffer` and `last_header`.

The whole work is about managing the buffer and managing the tokens.

The token access is very easy. As the parser is incremental, there is only one
token at a time. I don't need to explain Boost.Http control-flow because the
control flow will be coded by you (a library, not a framework). You only have to
use `code()` to check the current token and `value<T>()` to extract its value.
Use `next()` to advance a token.

[WARNING]
--
There is only one caveat. The parser doesn't buffer data and will decode the
token into a value (the `value<T>()` member function) directly from the buffer
data.

This means you cannot extract the current value once you drop current buffer
data. As a nice side effect, you spare CPU time for the tokens you do not need
to decode (match'n'decoding as separate steps).
--

The parser doesn't buffer data, which means when we use the `set_buffer` member
function, `request_reader` only maintains a **view** to the passed buffer, which
we'll refer to as the virtual buffer from now on.

In the virtual buffer, there is head/current and remaining/tail.
`request_reader` doesn't store a pointer/address/index to the real buffer. Once
a token is consumed, his bytes (head) are discarded from the virtual
buffer. When you mutate the real buffer, the virtual buffer is invalidated and
you must inform the parser using `set_buffer`. However, the bytes discarded from
the virtual buffer shouldn't appear again. You must keep track of the number of
discarded bytes to prepare the buffer to the next call to `set_buffer`. The
previous code doesn't handle that.

The new tool that you should be presented now is `token_size()`. `token_size()`
will return the size in bytes of current/head.

WARNING: There is no guarantee `token_size()` returns the same size as returned
by `string_length(request_reader.value<T>())`. You **need** to use
`token_size()` to compute the number of discarded bytes.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1c.cpp[]
----

`nparsed` was easy. However, the `while(request_reader.code() !=
code::end_of_message)` doesn't seem right. It's very error-prone to assume the
full HTTP message will be ready in a single call to `on_socket_callback`. Error
handling must be introduced in the code.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1d.cpp[]
----

Just because it's easy and we're already at it, let's handle the other errors as
well:

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1e.cpp[]
----

And buffer management is complete. However, the code only demonstrated how to
extract simple tokens. Field name and field value are simple tokens, but they
are usually tied together into a complex structure.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1f.cpp[]
----

`last_header` did the trick. Easy, but maybe we want to separate headers and
trailers (the HTTP headers that are sent _after_ the message body). This task
can be best accomplished by the use of structural/notification tokens.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1g.cpp[]
----

Some of the delimiters/structural tokens' properties are:

* No `value<T>()` associated. `value<T>()` extraction is a property exclusive of
  the _data_ tokens.
* It might be 0-sized.
* They are always emitted (e.g. `code::end_of_body` will be emitted before
  `code::end_of_message` even if no `code::body_chunk` is present).

[WARNING]
--
The code seems natural, but there is an implicit knowledge from an experienced
user there. The only tokens that are allowed to be 0-sized are delimiter tokens
(well... there are the errors too, but each error is special in its own way).

The coded control flow will always call `request_reader.next()` when
`on_socket_callback` is called (i.e. before we inspect current token in the
switch-statement). But if 0-sized tokens are possible, then we must exhaust the
current tokens before `on_socket_callback` returns. Otherwise we'll skip/miss
some token from the stream as `request_reader.next()` always consume the current
token.

The gotcha to achieve the correct behaviour in such situation is the fact that
only data tokens are emitted after `code::end_of_message` (our stop condition),
so we're safe.
--

We were using the `code::end_of_message` delimiter token since the initial
version of the code, so they aren't completely alien. However, we were ignoring
one very important HTTP parsing feature for this time. It's the last missing bit
before your understaning to use this library is complete. Our current code lacks
the ability to handle HTTP pipelining.

HTTP pipelining is the feature that allow HTTP clients to send HTTP requests “in
batch”. In other words, they may send several requests at once over the same
connection before the server create a response to them. If the previous code
faces this situation, it'll stop parsing on the first request and possibly wait
forever until the `on_socket_callback` is called again with more data (yeap,
networking code can be hard with so many little details).

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1h.cpp[]
----

There are HTTP libraries that could adopt a “synchronous” approach where the
user must immediately give a HTTP response once the `ready()` callback is called
so the parsing code can parse the whole buffer until the end and we could just
put the `ready()` call into the `code::end_of_message` case.

There are HTTP libraries that follow ASIO active style and we expect the user to
call something like `async_read_request` before it can read the next request. In
this case, the solution for HTTP pipelining would be different.

There are libraries that don't follow ASIO style, but don't force the user to
send HTTP responses immediately on the `ready()` callback. In such cases,
synchronization/coordination of the response generation by the user and parse
resuming by the library is necessary.

This point can be rather diverse and the code for this tutorial only shows a
rather quick'n'dirty solution. Any different solution to keep the parsing train
at full-speed is left as an exercise to the reader.

The interesting point about the code here is to clear the state of the
_to-be-parsed_ message before each request-response pair. In the previous code,
this was done binding the “method token arrived” event — the first token in a
HTTP request — with such state cleanup.

By now, you're ready to use this library in your projects. You may want to check
Boost.Http own usage of the parser or the Tufão library as real-world and
complete examples of this parser.

.See also

* <<request_response_diff,What are the differences between `reader::request` and
    `reader::response`?>>

Commit message:

Update parsing_tutorial1 to reflect current API

doc/parsing_tutorial1.adoc, after:

[[parsing_tutorial1]]
=== Parsing (beginner)

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to use this library to parse HTTP streams
easily.

NOTE: We assume the reader has basic understanding of C++ and Boost.Asio.

We start with the code that should resemble the structure of the program you're
about to code. And this structure is as follows:

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1.cpp[]
----

You're building a piece of code that consumes HTTP from somewhere — the in — and
spits it out in the form of C++ structured data to somewhere else — the out.

The _in_ of your program is connected to the above piece of code through the
`on_socket_callback` member function. The _out_ of your program is connected to
the previous piece of code through the `ready` overrideable member-function.

By now I shouldn't be worried about your understanding of how you'll connect the
network I/O with the _in_ of the program. The connection point is obvious
by now. However, I'll briefly explain the _out_ connection point and then we can
proceed to delve into the _inout_-inbetween (Danas) part of the program.

Once the `ready` member function is called, the data for your request will be
available in the `method`, `request_target` and the other _public_
variables. From now on, I'll focus my attention to the sole implementation of
`my_socket_consumer::on_socket_callback`.

.The awaited prize

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1b.cpp[]
----

Try to keep in mind the three variables that will really orchestrate the flow:
`request_reader`, `buffer` and `last_header`.

The whole work is about managing the buffer and managing the tokens.

The token access is very easy. As the parser is incremental, there is only one
token at a time. I don't need to explain Boost.Http control-flow because the
control flow will be coded by you (a library, not a framework). You only have to
use `code()` to check the current token and `value<T>()` to extract its value.
Use `next()` to advance a token.

[WARNING]
--
There is only one caveat. The parser doesn't buffer data and will decode the
token into a value (the `value<T>()` member function) directly from the buffer
data.

This means you cannot extract the current value once you drop current buffer
data. As a nice side effect, you spare CPU time for the tokens you do not need
to decode (match'n'decoding as separate steps).
--

The parser doesn't buffer data, which means when we use the `set_buffer` member
function, `request_reader` only maintains a **view** to the passed buffer, which
we'll refer to as the virtual buffer from now on.

In the virtual buffer, there is head/current and remaining/tail.
`request_reader` doesn't store a pointer/address/index to the real buffer. Once
a token is consumed, his bytes (head) are discarded from the virtual
buffer. When you mutate the real buffer, the virtual buffer is invalidated and
you must inform the parser using `set_buffer`. However, the bytes discarded from
the virtual buffer shouldn't appear again. You must keep track of the number of
discarded bytes to prepare the buffer to the next call to `set_buffer`. The
previous code doesn't handle that.

The new tool that you should be presented now is `token_size()`. `token_size()`
will return the size in bytes of current/head.

WARNING: There is no guarantee `token_size()` returns the same size as returned
by `string_length(request_reader.value<T>())`. You **need** to use
`token_size()` to compute the number of discarded bytes.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1c.cpp[]
----

`nparsed` was easy. However, the `while(request_reader.code() !=
code::end_of_message)` doesn't seem right. It's very error-prone to assume the
full HTTP message will be ready in a single call to `on_socket_callback`. Error
handling must be introduced in the code.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1d.cpp[]
----

Just because it's easy and we're already at it, let's handle the other errors as
well:

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1e.cpp[]
----

And buffer management is complete. However, the code only demonstrated how to
extract simple tokens. Field name and field value are simple tokens, but they
are usually tied together into a complex structure.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1f.cpp[]
----

`last_header` did the trick. Easy, but maybe we want to separate headers and
trailers (the HTTP headers that are sent _after_ the message body). This task
can be accomplished by the use of structural/notification tokens.

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1g.cpp[]
----

[NOTE]
--
Maybe you had a gut feeling and thought that the previous code was too
strange. If `trailer_name` is a separate token, why don't we use
`request_reader.value<token::trailer_name>()` (same to `trailer_value`) and go
away with notification tokens?

Yes, I unnecessarily complicated the code here to introduce you the concept of
structural tokens. They are very important and usually you'll end up using
them. Maybe this tutorial needs some revamping after the library evolved a few
times.

Also notice that here you can use either
`request_reader.value<token::field_name>()` or
`request_reader.value<token::trailer_name>()` to extract this token value. It is
as if `trailer_name` is “implicitly convertible” to `field_name`, so to speak.
This feature makes the life of users who don't need to differentiate headers and
trailers much easier (with no drawback to the users who do need to differentiate
them).
--

Some of the delimiters/structural tokens' properties are:

* No `value<T>()` associated. `value<T>()` extraction is a property exclusive of
  the _data_ tokens.
* It might be 0-sized.
* They are always emitted (e.g. `code::end_of_body` will be emitted before
  `code::end_of_message` even if no `code::body_chunk` is present).

[WARNING]
--
The code seems natural, but there is an implicit knowledge from an experienced
user there. The only tokens that are allowed to be 0-sized are delimiter tokens
(well... there are the errors too, but each error is special in its own way).

The coded control flow will always call `request_reader.next()` when
`on_socket_callback` is called (i.e. before we inspect current token in the
switch-statement). But if 0-sized tokens are possible, then we must exhaust the
current tokens before `on_socket_callback` returns. Otherwise we'll skip/miss
some token from the stream as `request_reader.next()` always consume the current
token.

The gotcha to achieve the correct behaviour in such situation is the fact that
only data tokens are emitted after `code::end_of_message` (our stop condition),
so we're safe.
--

We were using the `code::end_of_message` delimiter token since the initial
version of the code, so they aren't completely alien. However, we were ignoring
one very important HTTP parsing feature for this time. It's the last missing bit
before your understaning to use this library is complete. Our current code lacks
the ability to handle HTTP pipelining.

HTTP pipelining is the feature that allow HTTP clients to send HTTP requests “in
batch”. In other words, they may send several requests at once over the same
connection before the server create a response to them. If the previous code
faces this situation, it'll stop parsing on the first request and possibly wait
forever until the `on_socket_callback` is called again with more data (yeap,
networking code can be hard with so many little details).

[source,cpp]
----
include::parsing_tutorial1h.cpp[]
----

There are HTTP libraries that could adopt a “synchronous” approach where the
user must immediately give a HTTP response once the `ready()` callback is called
so the parsing code can parse the whole buffer until the end and we could just
put the `ready()` call into the `code::end_of_message` case.

There are HTTP libraries that follow ASIO active style and we expect the user to
call something like `async_read_request` before it can read the next request. In
this case, the solution for HTTP pipelining would be different.

There are libraries that don't follow ASIO style, but don't force the user to
send HTTP responses immediately on the `ready()` callback. In such cases,
synchronization/coordination of the response generation by the user and parse
resuming by the library is necessary.

This point can be rather diverse and the code for this tutorial only shows a
rather quick'n'dirty solution. Any different solution to keep the parsing train
at full-speed is left as an exercise to the reader.

The interesting point about the code here is to clear the state of the
_to-be-parsed_ message before each request-response pair. In the previous code,
this was done binding the “method token arrived” event — the first token in a
HTTP request — with such state cleanup.

By now, you're ready to use this library in your projects. You may want to check
Boost.Http own usage of the parser or the Tufão library as real-world and
complete examples of this parser.

.See also

* <<request_response_diff,What are the differences between `reader::request` and
    `reader::response`?>>
