doc/reference.adoc, before:

== Reference

All declarations from this library resides within the `boost::http`
namespace. For brevity, this prefix is *not* repeated on the documentation.

=== Summary

==== Classes

* <<headers,`headers`>>
* <<request,`request`>>
* <<response,`response`>>
* <<socket,`socket`>>
* <<buffered_socket,`buffered_socket`>>
* <<polymorphic_socket_base,`polymorphic_socket_base`>>
* <<polymorphic_server_socket,`polymorphic_server_socket`>>
* Tokens
** <<token_skip,`token::skip`>>
** <<token_field_name,`token::field_name`>>
** <<token_field_value,`token::field_value`>>
** <<token_body_chunk,`token::body_chunk`>>
** <<token_end_of_headers,`token::end_of_headers`>>
** <<token_end_of_body,`token::end_of_body`>>
** <<token_trailer_name,`token::trailer_name`>>
** <<token_trailer_value,`token::trailer_value`>>
** <<token_end_of_message,`token::end_of_message`>>
** <<token_method,`token::method`>>
** <<token_request_target,`token::request_target`>>
** <<token_version,`token::version`>>
** <<token_status_code,`token::status_code`>>
** <<token_reason_phrase,`token::reason_phrase`>>
* Structural parsers
** <<reader_request,`reader::request`>>
** <<reader_response,`reader::response`>>

==== Class Templates

* <<basic_request,`basic_request`>>
* <<basic_response,`basic_response`>>
* <<basic_socket,`basic_socket`>>
* <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>
* <<request_response_wrapper,`request_response_wrapper`>>
* <<basic_polymorphic_socket_base,`basic_polymorphic_socket_base`>>
* <<basic_polymorphic_server_socket,`basic_polymorphic_server_socket`>>
* <<server_socket_adaptor,`server_socket_adaptor`>>
* <<is_message,`is_message`>>
* <<is_request_message,`is_request_message`>>
* <<is_response_message,`is_response_message`>>
* <<is_socket,`is_socket`>>
* <<is_server_socket,`is_server_socket`>>
* <<is_client_socket,`is_client_socket`>>
* <<basic_router, `basic_router`>>
* <<regex_router, `regex_router`>>
* Content parsers
** <<syntax_chunk_size,`syntax::chunk_size`>>
** <<syntax_content_length,`syntax::content_length`>>
** <<syntax_strict_crlf,`syntax::strict_crlf`>>
** <<syntax_liberal_crlf,`syntax::liberal_crlf`>>
** <<syntax_field_name,`syntax::field_name`>>
** <<syntax_left_trimmed_field_value,`syntax::left_trimmed_field_value`>>
** <<syntax_ows,`syntax::ows`>>
** <<syntax_reason_phrase,`syntax::reason_phrase`>>
** <<syntax_status_code,`syntax::status_code`>>

==== Free Functions

* Header processing
** <<header_to_ptime,`header_to_ptime`>>
** <<to_http_date,`to_http_date`>>
** <<header_value_all_of,`header_value_all_of`>>
** <<header_value_any_of,`header_value_any_of`>>
** <<header_value_none_of,`header_value_none_of`>>
** <<header_value_for_each,`header_value_for_each`>>
** <<etag_match_strong,`etag_match_strong`>>
** <<etag_match_weak,`etag_match_weak`>>
* Channel querying
** <<request_continue_required,`request_continue_required`>>
** <<request_upgrade_desired,`request_upgrade_desired`>>
* File server
** <<async_response_transmit_file,`async_response_transmit_file`>>
** <<async_response_transmit_dir,`async_response_transmit_dir`>>

==== Enumerations

* <<read_state,`read_state`>>
* <<write_state,`write_state`>>
* <<status_code,`status_code`>>
* <<token_code_value,`token::code::value`>>

==== Error Codes

* <<http_errc,`http_errc`>>
* <<file_server_errc,`file_server_errc`>>

==== Type Requirements

* <<message_concept,`Message`>>
* <<request_concept,`Request`>>
* <<response_concept,`Response`>>
* <<socket_concept,`Socket`>>
* <<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket`>>
* <<client_socket_concept,`ClientSocket`>>

==== Headers

* <<algorithm_header,`<boost/http/algorithm.hpp>`>>
* <<header_header,`<boost/http/algorithm/header.hpp>`>>
* <<query_header,`<boost/http/algorithm/query.hpp>`>>
* <<file_server_header,`<boost/http/file_server.hpp>`>>
* <<headers_header,`<boost/http/headers.hpp>`>>
* <<http_category_header,`<boost/http/http_category.hpp>`>>
* <<http_errc_header,`<boost/http/http_errc.hpp>`>>
* <<request_header,`<boost/http/request.hpp>`>>
* <<response_header,`<boost/http/response.hpp>`>>
* <<request_response_wrapper_header,`<boost/http/request_response_wrapper.hpp>`>>
* <<polymorphic_server_socket_header,
    `<boost/http/polymorphic_server_socket.hpp>`>>
* <<polymorphic_socket_base_header,`<boost/http/polymorphic_socket_base.hpp>`>>
* <<read_state_header,`<boost/http/read_state.hpp>`>>
* <<server_socket_adaptor_header,`<boost/http/server_socket_adaptor.hpp>`>>
* <<socket_header,`<boost/http/socket.hpp>`>>
* <<buffered_socket_header,`<boost/http/buffered_socket.hpp>`>>
* <<status_code_header,`<boost/http/status_code.hpp>`>>
* <<write_state_header,`<boost/http/write_state.hpp>`>>
* <<traits_header,`<boost/http/traits.hpp>`>>
* <<basic_router_header,`<boost/http/basic_router.hpp>`>>
* <<regex_router_header,`<boost/http/regex_router.hpp>`>>
* <<token_header,`<boost/http/token.hpp>`>>
* <<reader_request_header,`<boost/http/reader/request.hpp>`>>
* <<reader_response_header,`<boost/http/reader/response.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_chunk_size_header,`<boost/http/syntax/chunk_size.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_content_length_header,`<boost/http/syntax/content_length.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_crlf_header,`<boost/http/syntax/crlf.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_field_name_header,`<boost/http/syntax/field_name.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_field_value_header,`<boost/http/syntax/field_value.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_ows_header,`<boost/http/syntax/ows.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_reason_phrase_header,`<boost/http/syntax/reason_phrase.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_status_code_header,`<boost/http/syntax/status_code.hpp>`>>

==== Macros

`BOOST_HTTP_SOCKET_DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE`::

  This macro defines the default buffer size for
  <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>. It's safe to override this
  value (per using class or globally) and should be done before including the
  file <<buffered_socket_header,`<boost/http/buffered_socket.hpp>`>>. The
  default provided value (i.e. the non-overriden version) is unspecified
  (e.g. can change among versions and platforms).

=== Detailed

include::ref/headers.adoc[]

include::ref/request.adoc[]

include::ref/response.adoc[]

include::ref/socket.adoc[]

include::ref/buffered_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/request_response_wrapper.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_polymorphic_socket_base.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_polymorphic_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_socket_base.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_request.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_response.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_buffered_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_adaptor.adoc[]

include::ref/header_to_ptime.adoc[]

include::ref/to_http_date.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_all_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_any_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_none_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_for_each.adoc[]

include::ref/etag_match_strong.adoc[]

include::ref/etag_match_weak.adoc[]

include::ref/request_continue_required.adoc[]

include::ref/request_upgrade_desired.adoc[]

include::ref/async_response_transmit_file.adoc[]

include::ref/async_response_transmit_dir.adoc[]

include::ref/read_state.adoc[]

include::ref/write_state.adoc[]

include::ref/status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/http_errc.adoc[]

include::ref/file_server_errc.adoc[]

include::ref/message_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/request_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/response_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/client_socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/algorithm_header.adoc[]

include::ref/header_header.adoc[]

include::ref/query_header.adoc[]

include::ref/file_server_header.adoc[]

include::ref/headers_header.adoc[]

include::ref/http_category_header.adoc[]

include::ref/http_errc_header.adoc[]

include::ref/request_header.adoc[]

include::ref/response_header.adoc[]

include::ref/request_response_wrapper_header.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_server_socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_socket_base_header.adoc[]

include::ref/read_state_header.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_adaptor_header.adoc[]

include::ref/socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/buffered_socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/status_code_header.adoc[]

include::ref/write_state_header.adoc[]

include::ref/traits_header.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_router_header.adoc[]

include::ref/regex_router_header.adoc[]

include::ref/is_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_request_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_response_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/is_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/is_client_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_router.adoc[]

include::ref/regex_router.adoc[]

include::ref/token_code_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_skip.adoc[]

include::ref/token_field_name.adoc[]

include::ref/token_field_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_body_chunk.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_headers.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_body.adoc[]

include::ref/token_trailer_name.adoc[]

include::ref/token_trailer_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_message.adoc[]

include::ref/token_method.adoc[]

include::ref/token_request_target.adoc[]

include::ref/token_version.adoc[]

include::ref/token_status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/token_reason_phrase.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_request.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_response.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_chunk_size.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_content_length.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_strict_crlf.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_liberal_crlf.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_name.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_left_trimmed_field_value.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_ows.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_reason_phrase.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/token_header.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_request_header.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_response_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_chunk_size_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_content_length_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_crlf_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_name_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_value_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_ows_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_reason_phrase_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_status_code_header.adoc[]

Commit message:

Implement ClientSocket concept (basic_socket)

doc/reference.adoc, after:

== Reference

All declarations from this library resides within the `boost::http`
namespace. For brevity, this prefix is *not* repeated on the documentation.

=== Summary

==== Classes

* <<headers,`headers`>>
* <<request,`request`>>
* <<response,`response`>>
* <<socket,`socket`>>
* <<buffered_socket,`buffered_socket`>>
* <<polymorphic_socket_base,`polymorphic_socket_base`>>
* <<polymorphic_server_socket,`polymorphic_server_socket`>>
* Tokens
** <<token_skip,`token::skip`>>
** <<token_field_name,`token::field_name`>>
** <<token_field_value,`token::field_value`>>
** <<token_body_chunk,`token::body_chunk`>>
** <<token_end_of_headers,`token::end_of_headers`>>
** <<token_end_of_body,`token::end_of_body`>>
** <<token_trailer_name,`token::trailer_name`>>
** <<token_trailer_value,`token::trailer_value`>>
** <<token_end_of_message,`token::end_of_message`>>
** <<token_method,`token::method`>>
** <<token_request_target,`token::request_target`>>
** <<token_version,`token::version`>>
** <<token_status_code,`token::status_code`>>
** <<token_reason_phrase,`token::reason_phrase`>>
* Structural parsers
** <<reader_request,`reader::request`>>
** <<reader_response,`reader::response`>>

==== Class Templates

* <<basic_request,`basic_request`>>
* <<basic_response,`basic_response`>>
* <<basic_socket,`basic_socket`>>
* <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>
* <<request_response_wrapper,`request_response_wrapper`>>
* <<basic_polymorphic_socket_base,`basic_polymorphic_socket_base`>>
* <<basic_polymorphic_server_socket,`basic_polymorphic_server_socket`>>
* <<server_socket_adaptor,`server_socket_adaptor`>>
* <<is_message,`is_message`>>
* <<is_request_message,`is_request_message`>>
* <<is_response_message,`is_response_message`>>
* <<is_socket,`is_socket`>>
* <<is_server_socket,`is_server_socket`>>
* <<is_client_socket,`is_client_socket`>>
* <<basic_router, `basic_router`>>
* <<regex_router, `regex_router`>>
* Content parsers
** <<syntax_chunk_size,`syntax::chunk_size`>>
** <<syntax_content_length,`syntax::content_length`>>
** <<syntax_strict_crlf,`syntax::strict_crlf`>>
** <<syntax_liberal_crlf,`syntax::liberal_crlf`>>
** <<syntax_field_name,`syntax::field_name`>>
** <<syntax_left_trimmed_field_value,`syntax::left_trimmed_field_value`>>
** <<syntax_ows,`syntax::ows`>>
** <<syntax_reason_phrase,`syntax::reason_phrase`>>
** <<syntax_status_code,`syntax::status_code`>>

==== Free Functions

* Header processing
** <<header_to_ptime,`header_to_ptime`>>
** <<to_http_date,`to_http_date`>>
** <<header_value_all_of,`header_value_all_of`>>
** <<header_value_any_of,`header_value_any_of`>>
** <<header_value_none_of,`header_value_none_of`>>
** <<header_value_for_each,`header_value_for_each`>>
** <<etag_match_strong,`etag_match_strong`>>
** <<etag_match_weak,`etag_match_weak`>>
* Channel querying
** <<request_continue_required,`request_continue_required`>>
** <<request_upgrade_desired,`request_upgrade_desired`>>
* File server
** <<async_response_transmit_file,`async_response_transmit_file`>>
** <<async_response_transmit_dir,`async_response_transmit_dir`>>

==== Enumerations

* <<read_state,`read_state`>>
* <<write_state,`write_state`>>
* <<status_code,`status_code`>>
* <<token_code_value,`token::code::value`>>

==== Error Codes

* <<http_errc,`http_errc`>>
* <<file_server_errc,`file_server_errc`>>

==== Type Requirements

* <<message_concept,`Message`>>
* <<request_concept,`Request`>>
* <<response_concept,`Response`>>
* <<socket_concept,`Socket`>>
* <<server_socket_concept,`ServerSocket`>>
* <<client_socket_concept,`ClientSocket`>>

==== Headers

* <<algorithm_header,`<boost/http/algorithm.hpp>`>>
* <<header_header,`<boost/http/algorithm/header.hpp>`>>
* <<query_header,`<boost/http/algorithm/query.hpp>`>>
* <<file_server_header,`<boost/http/file_server.hpp>`>>
* <<headers_header,`<boost/http/headers.hpp>`>>
* <<http_category_header,`<boost/http/http_category.hpp>`>>
* <<http_errc_header,`<boost/http/http_errc.hpp>`>>
* <<request_header,`<boost/http/request.hpp>`>>
* <<response_header,`<boost/http/response.hpp>`>>
* <<request_response_wrapper_header,`<boost/http/request_response_wrapper.hpp>`>>
* <<polymorphic_server_socket_header,
    `<boost/http/polymorphic_server_socket.hpp>`>>
* <<polymorphic_socket_base_header,`<boost/http/polymorphic_socket_base.hpp>`>>
* <<read_state_header,`<boost/http/read_state.hpp>`>>
* <<server_socket_adaptor_header,`<boost/http/server_socket_adaptor.hpp>`>>
* <<socket_header,`<boost/http/socket.hpp>`>>
* <<buffered_socket_header,`<boost/http/buffered_socket.hpp>`>>
* <<status_code_header,`<boost/http/status_code.hpp>`>>
* <<write_state_header,`<boost/http/write_state.hpp>`>>
* <<traits_header,`<boost/http/traits.hpp>`>>
* <<basic_router_header,`<boost/http/basic_router.hpp>`>>
* <<regex_router_header,`<boost/http/regex_router.hpp>`>>
* <<token_header,`<boost/http/token.hpp>`>>
* <<reader_request_header,`<boost/http/reader/request.hpp>`>>
* <<reader_response_header,`<boost/http/reader/response.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_chunk_size_header,`<boost/http/syntax/chunk_size.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_content_length_header,`<boost/http/syntax/content_length.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_crlf_header,`<boost/http/syntax/crlf.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_field_name_header,`<boost/http/syntax/field_name.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_field_value_header,`<boost/http/syntax/field_value.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_ows_header,`<boost/http/syntax/ows.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_reason_phrase_header,`<boost/http/syntax/reason_phrase.hpp>`>>
* <<syntax_status_code_header,`<boost/http/syntax/status_code.hpp>`>>

==== Macros

`BOOST_HTTP_SOCKET_DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE`::

  This macro defines the default buffer size for
  <<basic_buffered_socket,`basic_buffered_socket`>>. It's safe to override this
  value (per using class or globally) and should be done before including the
  file <<buffered_socket_header,`<boost/http/buffered_socket.hpp>`>>. The
  default provided value (i.e. the non-overriden version) is unspecified
  (e.g. can change among versions and platforms).

`BOOST_HTTP_UPGRADE_HEAD_DISABLE_CHECK`::

  Define this macro if you want to disable the check in
  `basic_socket::upgrade_head`. The check is there to ensure that you only uses
  this function in HTTP client mode. It'll throw an exception to notify the
  violation.

=== Detailed

include::ref/headers.adoc[]

include::ref/request.adoc[]

include::ref/response.adoc[]

include::ref/socket.adoc[]

include::ref/buffered_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/request_response_wrapper.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_polymorphic_socket_base.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_polymorphic_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_socket_base.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_request.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_response.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_buffered_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_adaptor.adoc[]

include::ref/header_to_ptime.adoc[]

include::ref/to_http_date.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_all_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_any_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_none_of.adoc[]

include::ref/header_value_for_each.adoc[]

include::ref/etag_match_strong.adoc[]

include::ref/etag_match_weak.adoc[]

include::ref/request_continue_required.adoc[]

include::ref/request_upgrade_desired.adoc[]

include::ref/async_response_transmit_file.adoc[]

include::ref/async_response_transmit_dir.adoc[]

include::ref/read_state.adoc[]

include::ref/write_state.adoc[]

include::ref/status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/http_errc.adoc[]

include::ref/file_server_errc.adoc[]

include::ref/message_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/request_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/response_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/client_socket_concept.adoc[]

include::ref/algorithm_header.adoc[]

include::ref/header_header.adoc[]

include::ref/query_header.adoc[]

include::ref/file_server_header.adoc[]

include::ref/headers_header.adoc[]

include::ref/http_category_header.adoc[]

include::ref/http_errc_header.adoc[]

include::ref/request_header.adoc[]

include::ref/response_header.adoc[]

include::ref/request_response_wrapper_header.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_server_socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/polymorphic_socket_base_header.adoc[]

include::ref/read_state_header.adoc[]

include::ref/server_socket_adaptor_header.adoc[]

include::ref/socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/buffered_socket_header.adoc[]

include::ref/status_code_header.adoc[]

include::ref/write_state_header.adoc[]

include::ref/traits_header.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_router_header.adoc[]

include::ref/regex_router_header.adoc[]

include::ref/is_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_request_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_response_message.adoc[]

include::ref/is_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/is_server_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/is_client_socket.adoc[]

include::ref/basic_router.adoc[]

include::ref/regex_router.adoc[]

include::ref/token_code_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_skip.adoc[]

include::ref/token_field_name.adoc[]

include::ref/token_field_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_body_chunk.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_headers.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_body.adoc[]

include::ref/token_trailer_name.adoc[]

include::ref/token_trailer_value.adoc[]

include::ref/token_end_of_message.adoc[]

include::ref/token_method.adoc[]

include::ref/token_request_target.adoc[]

include::ref/token_version.adoc[]

include::ref/token_status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/token_reason_phrase.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_request.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_response.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_chunk_size.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_content_length.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_strict_crlf.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_liberal_crlf.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_name.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_left_trimmed_field_value.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_ows.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_reason_phrase.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_status_code.adoc[]

include::ref/token_header.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_request_header.adoc[]

include::ref/reader_response_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_chunk_size_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_content_length_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_crlf_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_name_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_field_value_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_ows_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_reason_phrase_header.adoc[]

include::ref/syntax_status_code_header.adoc[]
